# Net Present Value

## How Net Present Value is calculated and used in real estate

A closely related concept to Present and Future Value is Net Present Value
(NPV). NPV is a measure of profitability that discounts all future cash
inflows to their present value and subtracts the present value of the
outflows that were required to earn them.

<!-- TODO: Figure -->

Comparing the NPV of different investment options allows investors to
evaluate their relative attractiveness.

A positive NPV indicates the investment is worth pursuing as the future
returns outweigh the money we need to forgo today, even when factoring in
the time value of money.

A negative NPV indicates the investment doesn’t earn future returns that
cover the Cost of Capital, and an NPV of zero indicates that an investor
should be indifferent to investing.

In commercial real estate, the technique is used to evaluate investment
properties by determining the Present Value of all the future cash inflows
and outflows expected during the entire ownership cycle of the
property–boiling those cash flows down to a single number.

## Example

Let’s say we had a real estate investment that offered us $115 next year
for an investment of $100 now. If our Discount Rate was 8%, what would be
the NPV of the investment?

To determine the NPV of the investment, we’d need to calculate the Present
Value of each of the cash flows. Those Present Values would then be
summed.

The Present Value of the cash inflow is $106.48 and the Present Value of
the cash outflow is $100. Therefore, the Net Present Value of the
opportunity to our investor is $6.48.

<!-- TODO: Figure -->

With a positive NPV, the investment covers our Cost of Capital and would
therefore be a good investment.

## Discount Factor

An alternative way to calculate a large series of Present Values is to
determine the Discount Factor (not to be confused with the related
Discount Rate) in each period and divide the net Future Value cash flows
of that period by the Discount Factor.

The Discount Factor is the denominator of the Present Value formula and is
an index representing the hurdle to cover the Cost of Capital in any given
period.

<!-- TODO: Figure -->

For example, if you had a series of cash flows and a Discount Rate of 10%,
the Discount Factor could be used to determine the Present Value of all
the cash flows in each period. Each net cash flow in Future Values can
then be divided by the Discount Factor to arrive at the net cash flow in
Present Values, with the Net Present Value being equal to the sum of all
the Present Values.

<!-- TODO: Figure -->
